[Compiled Graph] Compiled graph documentation V0 (#49115)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-core/compiled-graph/ray-compiled-graph.rst

Ray Compiled Graph
==================

.. warning::

    Ray Compiled Graph is currently at a developer preview stage. The APIs are subject to change and expected to evolve.
    The API is available from Ray 2.32.

As large language models become common, programming distributed systems with multiple GPUs is essential.
Ray APIs facilitate this but have limitations: a high system overhead of over 1ms per task launch, 
unsuitable for high-performance tasks like LLM inference, and lack direct GPU-to-GPU RDMA communication, requiring external tools like NCCL. 

> Ray Compiled Graph give you a classic Ray Core-like API but with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray Compiled Graph gives you a classic Ray Core-like API but with:
```

- **Much lower system overhead** (less than 50us) for workloads that repeatedly execute the same task DAG
- **Native support for GPU-GPU communication**, via NCCL with various optimization such as overlapping compute and communication.

.. testcode::

    # Ray Core API for remote execution

>     # 1ms overhead to invoke `recv`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # ~1ms overhead to invoke `recv`
```

    ref = receiver.recv.remote(data)
    ray.get(ref)

    # Compiled Graph for remote execution

>     # less than 50us overhead to invoke `recv`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # less than 50us overhead to invoke `recv` (during `dag.execute(data)`)
```

    with InputNode() as inp:
        dag = receiver.recv.bind(inp)
    dag = dag.experimental_compile()
    ref = dag.execute(data)
    ray.get(ref)

Ray Compiled Graph has a static execution model which is different from classic Ray APIs which are eager. Because
of the static nature, Ray Compiled Graph can perform various optimization such as

- Pre-allocate resources so that it can reduce system overhead.

> - Prepare NCCL communicators and schedule it in a way it has no deadlocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prepare NCCL communicators and schedule it in a way that avoids deadlocks.
```

- Automatically overlap GPU compute and communication.
- Improve multi node performance.

Use Cases
---------
Ray Compiled Graph APIs are designed to simplify high-performance multi-GPU workloads.

> - Applications with sub-millisecond level runtime requirements (which is highly affected by 1ms+ system overhead). I.e., LLM inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Applications with sub-millisecond level runtime requirements (which is highly affected by 1ms+ system overhead), e.g., LLM inference.
```

> - Multi GPU applications such as LLM inference or train.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Multi GPU applications such as LLM inference or training.
```

> - Multi GPU applications with heterogenous compute pattern. See `Heterogenous training with Ray Compiled Graph <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mg08QTBILWU>`_ for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Multi GPU applications with heterogenous compute patterns. See `Heterogenous training with Ray Compiled Graph <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mg08QTBILWU>`_ for more details.
```

Ray Compiled Graph
==================

.. warning::

    Ray Compiled Graph is currently at a developer preview stage. The APIs are subject to change and expected to evolve.
    The API is available from Ray 2.32.

> As large language models become common, programming distributed systems with multiple GPUs is essential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As large language models (LLMs) become common, programming distributed systems with multiple GPUs is essential.
```

> Ray APIs facilitate this but have limitations: a high system overhead of over 1ms per task launch, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray APIs facilitate using multiple GPUs but have limitations such as: 
* having a high system overhead of over 1ms per task launch 
```

> unsuitable for high-performance tasks like LLM inference, and lack direct GPU-to-GPU RDMA communication, requiring external tools like NCCL. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* being unsuitable for high-performance tasks like LLM inference
* lack direct GPU-to-GPU RDMA communication, requiring external tools like NCCL 
```

Ray Compiled Graph gives you a classic Ray Core-like API but with:

> - **Much lower system overhead** (less than 50us) for workloads that repeatedly execute the same task DAG

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Less than 50us system overhead** for workloads that repeatedly execute the same task DAG
```

> - **Native support for GPU-GPU communication**, via NCCL with various optimization such as overlapping compute and communication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Native support for GPU-GPU communication**, with NCCL with various optimizations such as overlapping compute and communication.
```

.. testcode::

>     # Ray Core API for remote execution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Ray Core API for remote execution.
```

>     # ~1ms overhead to invoke `recv`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # ~1ms overhead to invoke `recv`.
```

    ref = receiver.recv.remote(data)
    ray.get(ref)

>     # Compiled Graph for remote execution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Compiled Graph for remote execution.
```

>     # less than 50us overhead to invoke `recv` (during `dag.execute(data)`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Less than 50us overhead to invoke `recv` (during `dag.execute(data)`).
```

    with InputNode() as inp:
        dag = receiver.recv.bind(inp)

    dag = dag.experimental_compile()
    ref = dag.execute(data)
    ray.get(ref)

> Ray Compiled Graph has a static execution model which is different from classic Ray APIs which are eager. Because

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray Compiled Graph has a static execution model. It is different from classic Ray APIs, which are eager. Because
```

> of the static nature, Ray Compiled Graph can perform various optimization such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the static nature, Ray Compiled Graph can perform various optimizations such as
```

- Pre-allocate resources so that it can reduce system overhead.
- Prepare NCCL communicators and schedule it in a way that avoids deadlocks.
- Automatically overlap GPU compute and communication.

> - Improve multi node performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Improve multi-node performance.
```

Use Cases
---------

> Ray Compiled Graph APIs are designed to simplify high-performance multi-GPU workloads.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray Compiled Graph APIs simplify high-performance multi-GPU workloads such as:
```

> - Applications with sub-millisecond level runtime requirements (which is highly affected by 1ms+ system overhead). E.g., LLM inference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Applications with sub-millisecond level runtime requirements, which are highly affected by 1ms+ system overhead. For example, LLM inference.
```
